Expand the Gallantries project description (#11)
elixir-europe/biohackathon-projects-2021: projects/10/README.md

# Project 10: Development of training modules and infrastructure for Gallantries

## Abstract

The Gallantries project is a collaboration between five European universities, members of Software Carpentry, and members of the Galaxy Project. Goal of the project is to increase bioinformatics and core data analysis skills in the field of life sciences across Europe.
A pilot effort in 2019, started during Biohackathon in 2018, developed Hybrid Training: broadcast of a single instructor to learners in distributed classrooms with on-site helpers. This significantly improved the scalability and decreased the environmental impact of having instructors travel around Europe. With COVID-19 pandemic, hybrid and/or fully virtual training events have become the norm. To support this teaching format, training materials must be adapted, and instructors need to be trained.

> Main focus of the BioHackathon project will be to discuss, and create draft for training modules on microbial analysis, machine-learning, and Train-the-Trainer (TtT), specifically tailored to fit a remote/hybrid training format. Specifically, the project will include the following activities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Main focus of the BioHackathon project will be to discuss, and create draft for training modules on microbial analysis, genome annotation, and Train-the-Trainer (TtT), specifically tailored to fit a remote/hybrid training format. Specifically, the project will include the following activities:
```

- Review existing ELIXIR TrP and GTN material
- Define a learning plan and rough draft of the 3 modules

In parallel, we would like to 
- Improve the template repository that can be readily re-used to easily create a Galaxy-based training event website for organizers (based on the GTN Smorgasbord event)
- Implement the infrastructure (website with API) to list videos supporting tutorials and integration into the Galaxy Training Network website
- Implement a course builder prototype which lists existing modules (tutorials, videos, etc) and their metadata (length, etc), allows to select the interesting modules and divides the selected modules by 4-8 hours to fit them into days for building training events 

## Topics

- Galaxy
- Training Platform
- Hybrid training
- Train the trainers

> - Machine learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Genome annotation
```

## Expected outcomes

- Training modules
  - Review of existing materials   
  - Learning plans for the 3 modules

>   - Rought drafts for content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Rough drafts for content
```

- Training infrastructure
  - Template repository to create Galaxy-based training event websites
  - Website with an API to list videos supporting Galaxy-based tutorials
  - Prototype for the course builder
  - Documentation

## Expected audience

> Researchers with knowledge in training development, microbial data analysis, machine learning, Train the Trainer and also in training organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Researchers with knowledge in training development, microbial data analysis, genome annotation, Train the Trainer and also in training organization.
```
